# Configuring mixed DPI monitors with xrandr | The One and the Many (blog.summercat.com)

<https://blog.summercat.com/configuring-mixed-dpi-monitors-with-xrandr.html>

## Description

I use xrandr to configure a dual monitor setup with a high DPI and low DPI monitor on Linux. I also use it to switch back and forth between a dual monitor and a single monitor setup.

## Tags

#ricing #xrandr #tips

## Content

Configuring mixed DPI monitors with xrandr \| The One and the Many {#configuring-mixed-dpi-monitors-with-xrandr-the-one-and-the-many .reader-title}
==================================================================

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Configuring mixed DPI monitors with xrandr
------------------------------------------

I\'ve recently started using a high DPI laptop together with a regular DPI
monitor in a dual monitor setup. While there are GUI tools to configure
dual monitors, I wanted to do it through the CLI. The usual way to
configure monitor settings via the CLI in Linux is with a program called
[`xrandr`](https://www.x.org/wiki/Projects/XRandR/). As it took me a bit of
trial and error to get everything working well, I thought it would be
useful to write about the commands I settled on and how they work.

The setup
---------

The laptop sits on the left of the monitor. The tops of both line up.

Usually I want to use both monitors at the same time. However I\'ve found it
necessary to disable one of them, usually the laptop, when I want to share
my screen. This means it is important that I can easily switch back and
forth between dual and single monitors.

It is also important that I retain the ability to use the laptop without
the external monitor.

The tricky parts
----------------

There were two aspects I found problematic:

First, the fact that the two monitors have differing DPI means each monitor
needs different settings to account for that. `xrandr` allows setting the
DPI via `--dpi`, but this applies globally to all monitors. I dealt with
this by setting the global DPI to that of the highest DPI monitor, and then
used `--scale` to adjust the lower DPI monitor.

Second, switching back and forth between dual monitors to one monitor lead
to interesting behaviour. For example, I kept losing the scale setting on
the lower DPI monitor.

I had a semi-working setup with little trouble, but it involved restarting
`X` when I wanted to switch between dual and single monitors. This worked,
but obviously was inconvenient. I wanted a solution that would work without
restarts.

The solution
------------

I came up with two `xrandr` commands. One configures to use both monitors,
and the other configures to use only the external monitor.

### Dual monitors

When I want to use both monitors, this is the command I run:

    xrandr --dpi 276 --fb 7040x3960 \
        --output eDP-1 --mode 3200x1800 \
        --output DP-1-2 --scale 2x2 --pos 3200x0 --panning 3840x2160+3200+0

Here\'s an explanation of the options:

-   Global options:
    -   `--dpi 276` sets the DPI to `276`.
    -   `--fb 7040x3960` creates one screen with resolution `7040x3960`. This
        is the combined resolution of the two monitors. The high DPI monitor
        has `3200x1800` resolution. The lower DPI monitor has `1920x1080`
        resolution, but I double it as I scale it by 2 (see below). Combine
        these like so: `3200+1920*2 x 1800+1080*2 = 7040x3960`. Both monitors
        share this screen.
-   High DPI monitor options (`--output eDP-1`):
    -   `--mode 3200x1800` says to use resolution `3200x1800`. This is the
        default, but specifying it is necessary if the monitor is disabled (as it
        is when using the external monitor by itself) as it enables the
        monitor.
-   Lower DPI monitor options (`--output DP-1-2`):
    -   `--scale 2x2` is similar to zooming out. This is necessary as we set
        the DPI globally to that of the high DPI monitor.
    -   `--pos` positions it to the right of the laptop monitor.
    -   `--panning` allows our pointer to access the whole area.

### Single monitor (external)

If I want to use only the lower DPI monitor, then I run this command:

    xrandr --dpi 276 --fb 3840x2160 \
        --output eDP-1 --off \
        --output DP-1-2 --scale 2x2 --panning 3840x2160

Most of these options are similar to the first command\'s. The main
difference is disabling the laptop monitor with `--output eDP-1 --off`.

Note `3840x2160` comes from `1920*2 x 1080*2`.

You might wonder why I set high DPI and scale the lower DPI monitor here.
Wouldn\'t it be simpler to set a lower DPI and use the monitor\'s native
resolution? That\'s possible, but since I\'ve configured other things (such
as my `X` terminal fonts) to a size suitable for a high DPI screen, I\'d
have to adjust settings elsewhere. Keeping the DPI the same and continuing
to scale allows me to avoid that. Since I\'m scaling, I need to configure a
large screen and set panning for the same reasons as before.

### Single monitor (laptop)

This is the default state prior to running any `xrandr` commands. In theory
I could have another command for this, but so far I haven\'t needed to
switch to this.

A final note: `--mode` vs `--auto`
----------------------------------

I initially tried using `--output eDP-1 --auto` when I wanted to enable the
laptop monitor after disabling it. However, I found this lost the `--scale`
setting, so I had to either restart `X` or run the same `xrandr` command
twice. Using `--mode` does not have this problem.

Resources
---------

I did a bunch of searching figuring out this setup. The two best resources
I found were these:

-   The `xrandr(1)` man page. It breaks down `xrandr`\'s options by those
    that apply globally vs. those that apply per output which I found
    helpful.
-   The Arch Linux wiki [HiDPI
    article](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/HiDPI). This article has
    a lot of good high DPI related information, including many `xrandr`
    examples.

Tags: Linux, cli, xrandr, monitors, laptop

Comments
--------
