# Input: Fonts for Code (input.djr.com)

<https://input.djr.com/>

## Description

Input is a typeface for code, designed by David Jonathan Ross and released by Font Bureau.

## Tags

#coding-fonts

## Content

Input: Fonts for Code {#input-fonts-for-code .reader-title}
=====================

David Jonathan Ross, Nick Sherman

------------------------------------------------------------------------

`                      `

    # coding=utf-8
    from vanilla import *
    from defconAppKit.windows.baseWindow import BaseWindowController
    from mojo.events import addObserver, removeObserver
    import math
     
    class ShowMouseCoordinatesTextBox(TextBox):
        def __init__( *args, **kwargs):
            super(ShowMouseCoordinatesTextBox, self).__init__(*args, **kwargs)
            addObserver("mouseMoved", "mouseMoved")
            addObserver("mouseDragged", "mouseDragged")
            addObserver("mouseUp", "mouseUp")
     
        
        def mouseMoved(self, info):
            point = info["point"]
            text = u"%.0f %.0f" % (point.x, point.y)
            self.set(text)
     
        
        def mouseDragged(self, info):
            point = info["point"]
            positionSymbol = unichr(8982)
            deltaPoint = info["delta"]
            angle = math.degrees(math.atan2(deltaPoint.y, deltaPoint.x))
            distance = math.hypot(deltaPoint.x, deltaPoint.y)
            text = u"The point is (%s, %s)." % (point.x, point.y)
            self.set(text)       
     
        
        def mouseUp(self, info):
            point = info["point"]
            text = u"%.0f %.0f" % (point.x, point.y)
            self.set(text)
     
        
        def _breakCycles(self):
            super(ShowMouseCoordinatesTextBox, self)._breakCycles()
            removeObserver(self, "mouseMoved")
            removeObserver(self, "mouseDragged")
            removeObserver(self, "mouseUp")

`         `

`                      `

    <html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <meta charset="UTF-8" />
        <link rel="shortcut icon" href="/images/favicon.ico" />
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="/css/site.css" type="text/css" charset="UTF-8" />
        <script src="http://code.jquery.com/jquery-1.9.1.min.js"></script>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1>Input: Fonts for Code</h1>    
        <p>Like many programmers, David Jonathan Ross had used monospaced fonts for his code. That was before he questioned the convention and answered with a fresh approach for data and programming aesthetics. Input finds inspiration in early computer consoles but looks towards a typographically rich future, where coding environments overcome technical limitations and allow for full control over one’s display; FB 2014</p>
        <h2>Story</h2>
        <p>Input is inspired by fonts for early consoles and screens, but casts off the technical limitations that constrained them. Inspired by Matthew Carter’s process for drawing Verdana, I began by constructing a bitmap font, and then drew the outlines of Input’s letterforms on top of the 11-pixel grid. 
        <p>Then drew outlines of Input’s letterforms on top of the 11-pixel grid.

`         `

    SMALL CRAFT ADVISORY IN EFFECT UNTIL 9 AM PDT SATURDAY...
    SHORT-PERIOD AND STEEP HAZARDOUS SEAS BETWEEN 10 AND 12 FEET WILL DEVELOP SATURDAY AFTERNOON
    GALE WARNING IN EFFECT FROM 3 PM SATURDAY TO 3 AM PDT MONDAY...
    WINDS WILL INCREASE TO 10 TO 20 KNOTS WITH
    FREQUENT GUSTS TO 25 KNOTS TONIGHT AND CONTINUE THROUGH SATURDAY
    MORNING, THEN SHIFT TO NORTHWEST AND INCREASE
    THORUGH SATURDAY AFTERNOON. NORTHWEST WINDS 15 TO 25 KNOTS WITH
      FREQUENT GUSTS BETWEEN 35 AND 40 KNOTS WILL DEVELOP LATE
      SATURDAY AFTERNOON AND CONTINUE INTO SUNDAY EVENING. THE WINDS
      WILL BEGIN TO DIMINISH LATE SUNDAY NIGHT.

    * SEAS...SHORT-PERIOD AND STEEP HAZARDOUS SEAS BETWEEN 10 AND 12
      FEET WILL DEVELOP SATURDAY AFTERNOON...THEN BUILD TO BETWEEN 15
      AND 20 FEET SATURDAY NIGHT INTO SUNDAY.

    PRECAUTIONARY/PREPAREDNESS ACTIONS...

    A GALE WARNING MEANS WINDS OF 34 TO 47 KNOTS ARE IMMINENT OR
    OCCURING. OPERATING A VESSEL IN GALE CONDITIONS REQUIRES
    EXPERIENCE AND PROPERLY EQUIPPED VESSELS. IT IS HIGHLY
    RECOMMENDED THAT MARINERS WITHOUT THE PROPER EXPERIENCE SEEK SAFE
    HARBOR PRIOR TO THE ONSET OF GALE CONDITIONS.

    A SMALL CRAFT ADVISORY MEANS THAT WIND SPEEDS OF 21 TO 33 KNOTS
    ARE EXPECTED TO PRODUCE HAZARDOUS WAVE CONDITIONS TO SMALL CRAFT.
    INEXPERIENCED MARINERS...ESPECIALLY THOSE OPERATING SMALLER
    VESSELS SHOULD AVOID NAVIGATING IN THESE CONDITIONS.

`                      `

    function findSequence(goal) {
      function find(start, history) {
        if (start == goal)
          return history;
        else if (start > goal)
          return null;
        else
          return find(start + 5, "(" + history + " + 5)") ||
                 find(start * 3, "(" + history + " * 3)");
      }
      return find(1, "1");
    }

`         `

`                      `

    PID    COMMAND      %CPU TIME     #TH   #WQ  #PORT #MREGS MEM    RPRVT  PURG
    18195  top          22.4 00:02.08 1/1   0    22    48     3776K  3544K  0B
    18192  bash         0.0  00:00.03 1     0    19    35     1072K  932K   0B
    18191  login        0.0  00:00.04 4     2    35    58     1192K  868K   0B
    18188  mdworker     0.0  00:00.50 4     2    57    80     6224K  5540K  0B
    18187  mdworker     0.0  00:00.44 2     0    50    69     6224K  4920K  0B
    18171  syncdefaults 0.0  00:00.76 5     1    93    74     4744K  4320K  0B
    18167  mdworker     0.0  00:00.17 5     1    65    86     3796K  3048K  0B
    18165  com.apple.We 0.4  00:06.43 15    3    246-  1040-  55M-   54M+   0B
    18117  com.apple.We 0.0  00:06.81 14    1    198   1296   10M+   5604K+ 0B
    18093  mdwrite      0.0  00:00.04 3     2    53    59     240K   136K   0B
    17998  com.apple.iC 0.0  00:00.65 7     2    97    98     3556K  2948K  0B
    17996  periodic-wra 0.0  00:00.00 2     1    29    39     8192B  0B     0B
    17995  netbiosd     0.0  00:00.03 2     1    42    47     8192B  0B     0B

``

    Int. NASA control center communications room.

    There are several long desks with the newest, high-tech
    computers placed on them. Focus on one technician...

    The TECHNICIAN types at the computer, a tired 
    look on his face. Suddenly, a flashing white light 
    illuminates his face, accompanied by a beeping sound. 

                          TECHNICIAN:
        Mr. Brown, I need you to take a look at this.

    After a moment, NASA Director MARCUS BROWN (mid-
    40’s) walks up to the Technician. Brown looks like the 
    kind of guy who worked extremely hard to get to where 
    he  is today and he doesn’t plan to quit anytime soon.

`                      `

    (define (handle-start directory [port #f])
      (if (not (directory-exists? directory))
          (error (format "~a is not a directory" directory))
          `(begin 
             (require pollen/server pollen/world)
             (parameterize ([world:current-project-root ,directory]
                            ,@(if port (list `(world:current-server-port ,port)) null))
               (start-server)))))
    (define (handle-clone directory rest-args)
      (define target-path (or 
                           (and rest-args (not (null? rest-args)) (path->complete-path (string->path (car rest-args))))
                           (build-path (find-system-path 'desk-dir) (string->path world:clone-directory-name))))

`         `

`                              `

    /* basic screen stylesheet */
    @media screen {
        body {
            margin: 0px;
            padding: 0px;
            font-family: "Input Serif", "Courier New", "Times New Roman", serif;
            font-size: 1em;
            background-color: #F0ECD6;
        }
        /* Link colors */
        a:link {
            color: #993300;
            text-decoration: none;
        }
        /* Paragraph */
        p {
            font-size: 1em;
            font-style: italic;
            margin-left: 2em;
            margin-right: 2em;
        }
        p:first-child {
            padding-top: 2em;
        }  
    }

`         `

`                      `

    module ActionView #:nodoc:
      # Use FixtureResolver in your tests to simulate the presence of files on the
      # file system. This is used internally by Rails' own test suite.
      class FixtureResolver < PathResolver
        attr_reader :hash
        def initialize(hash = {}, pattern=nil)
          super(pattern)
          @hash = hash
        end
      private

        def query(path, exts, formats)
          query = ""
          EXTENSIONS.each_key do |ext|
            query << '(' << exts[ext].map {|e| e && Regexp.escape(".#{e}") }.join('|') << '|)'
          end
          query = /^(#{Regexp.escape(path)})#{query}$/

          templates = []
          @hash.each do |_path, array|
            source, updated_at = array
            next unless _path =~ query
            handler, format, variant = extract_handler_and_format_and_variant(_path, formats)
            templates << Template.new(source, _path, handler,
              :virtual_path => path.virtual,
              :format => format,
              :variant => variant,
              :updated_at => updated_at
            )
          end

          templates.sort_by {|t| -t.identifier.match(/^#{query}$/).captures.reject(&:blank?).size }
        end
      end

`         `

`                                    `

`Trapezoid Diagonally Semicircular  Trapezoid Pentagon`

`         `

`                      `

    \usepackage{listings}
    \usepackage{color}
    \definecolor{mygreen}{rgb}{0,0.6,0}
    \definecolor{mygray}{rgb}{0.5,0.5,0.5}
    \definecolor{mymauve}{rgb}{0.58,0,0.82}

    \lstset{ %
      backgroundcolor=\color{white},  % choose the background color; you must add \usepackage{color} or \usepackage{xcolor}
      basicstyle=\footnotesize,       % the size of the fonts that are used for the code
      breakatwhitespace=false,        % sets if automatic breaks should only happen at whitespace
      breaklines=true,                % sets automatic line breaking
      captionpos=b,                   % sets the caption-position to bottom
      commentstyle=\color{mygreen},    % comment style
      deletekeywords={...},            % if you want to delete keywords from the given language
      escapeinside={\%*}{*)},          % if you want to add LaTeX within your code
      extendedchars=true,              % lets you use non-ASCII characters; for 8-bits encodings only, does not work with UTF-8
      frame=single,                    % adds a frame around the code
      keepspaces=true,                 % keeps spaces in text, useful for keeping indentation of code (possibly needs columns=flexible)
      keywordstyle=\color{blue},       % keyword style
      language=Octave,                 % the language of the code
      morekeywords={*,...},            % if you want to add more keywords to the set
      numbers=left,                    % where to put the line-numbers; possible values are (none, left, right)
      numbersep=5pt,                   % how far the line-numbers are from the code
      numberstyle=\tiny\color{mygray}, % the style that is used for the line-numbers
      rulecolor=\color{black},         % if not set, the frame-color may be changed on line-breaks within not-black text (e.g. comments (green here))
      showspaces=false,                % show spaces everywhere adding particular underscores; it overrides 'showstringspaces'
      showstringspaces=false,          % underline spaces within strings only
      showtabs=false,                  % show tabs within strings adding particular underscores
      stepnumber=2,                    % the step between two line-numbers. If it's 1, each line will be numbered
      stringstyle=\color{mymauve},     % string literal style
      tabsize=2,                       % sets default tabsize to 2 spaces
      title=\lstname                   % show the filename of files included with \lstinputlisting; also try caption instead of title

`         `

`                      `

    class noordzij_cube : public std::basic_ostream<char>
    {
    public:
        textify() : std::basic_ostream<char>(new scribe_buf()) { }
        void open(std::string host, unsigned short port, std::string category, int timeout)
        {
            scribe_buf * buf = (scribe_buf*)rdbuf();
            buf->open(host, port, category, timeout);
        }
    };

`         `

`             `

### `Code Beaches`

`             `

-   California
-   New York
-   Washington
-   Massachusetts
